# C2P1 - Travel Policy

## Objectives

The purpose of this Travel Policy is to ensure the safety of the organization’s assets when subjected to remote reach.
This policy covers all the procedures of personnel or contracted individuals and how it reflects on the organization’s routine operations, assets, and risk management system, and the recovery plan needed.

This policy aims to:

- Ensures the safety of the organization’s assets when subjected to remote reach.
- Ensures the occurrence of routine operations, assets, and risk management system
- Ensures you have the proper data backup and recovery plan needed.

## Scope

This policy applies to:

- your employees
- any external contractors

## Conditions

?> `C2P1.C1` - Specific risks of a destination should be assessed in advance and adequate measures need to be in place in case of necessity. Otherwise, the travel should not be undertaken.

?> `C2P1.C2` - The organization will enable all employees and experts to prepare themselves by means of adequate instructions regarding travel safety and security.

?> `C2P1.C3` - For all business trips, all operational updates, and operations that occur with the employee or contracted individual should be sent to a separate document - accessed by only authorized and concerned parties- in case of emergencies. In this document all the trip’s updates, operations details will be stored.

?> `C1.1.4` - When a situation occurs abroad where staff or contracted individuals are not available, the organization’s ethical committee should be able to provide at short notice guidance or take a decision on the matter prioritizing action based on the gravity of the consequences.

?> `1.1.5` - Information security officers are responsible for the enforcement and monitoring of the policy.

?> `1.1.6` - All security incidents or near-incidents should be reported by the employee, the contracted individual, or their manager to the officer and the ethical committee. The Board will then discuss the follow-up and actions needed.

## Compliance

- `C2P1.CR1` - Compliance Measurement, the InfoSec team will verify compliance to this policy through various methods, including but not limited to, periodic check-ups and internal audits, and feedback.

- `C2P1.CR2` - Exceptions, any exception to the policy must be approved by the ethical committee or the board in advance.

- `C2P1.CR3` - Non-Compliance, an employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

## Related Policies

- `C1P3`, `C3P4`
